federalist number four
the same subject continued concerning
dangers from foreign force and influence
for the independent journal
by john jay
to the people of the state of new york
my last paper assigned several reasons
why the safety of the people
would be best secured by union against
the danger it may be exposed to by just
causes of war given to other nations and
those reasons show that such causes
would not
only be more rarely given but would also
be more easily accommodated by a
national government than either by the
state governments
or the proposed little confederacies but
the safety of the people of america
against dangers from foreign force
depends not only on the forbearing to
give just causes of war to other nations
but also on their placing and continuing
themselves in such a situation as not to
invite hostility or insult
for it need not be observed that there
are pretended as well as
just causes of war it is too true
however disgraceful it may be to human
nature that nations in general will make
war whenever they have a prospect of
getting anything by it
nay absolute monarchs will often make
war when their nations are to get
nothing by it but for the purposes and
objects merely personal
such as thirst for military glory
revenge for personal affronts
ambition or private compacts to
aggrandize or support their particular
families or partisans
these and a variety of other motives
which affect only the mind of the
sovereign
often lead him to engage in wars not
sanctified by justice or the voice and
interests of his people
but independent of these inducements to
war which are more prevalent in absolute
monarchies but which well deserve our
attention
there are others which affect nations as
often as kings
and some of them will on examination be
found to grow out of our relative
situation and circumstances
with france and with britain we are
rivals in the fisheries and can supply
their markets cheaper than they can
themselves
not withstanding any efforts to prevent
it by bounties on their own or duties on
foreign fish
with them and with most other european
nations we are rivals in navigation and
the carrying trade
and we shall deceive ourselves if we
suppose that any of them will rejoice to
see it flourish
for as our carrying trade cannot
increase without in some degree
diminishing theirs
it is more their interest and will be
more their policy to restrain than to
promote it
in the trade to china and india we
interfere with more than one nation
inasmuch as it enables us to partake in
advantages which they had in a manner
monopolized
and as we thereby supply ourselves with
commodities which we use to purchase
from them the extension of our own
commerce in our own vessels
cannot give pleasure to any nations who
possess territories on or near this
continent
because the cheapness and excellence of
our productions added to the
circumstances of vicinity and the
enterprise
and address of our merchants and
navigators will give us a greater share
in the advantage which those territories
afford than consists with the wishes or
policy of their respective sovereigns
spain thinks it convenient to shut the
mississippi against us on the one side
and britain excludes us from the saint
lawrence on the other
nor will either of them permit the other
waters which are between them and
us to become the means of mutual
intercourse and traffic
from these and such like considerations
which might if consistent with prudence
be more amplified and detailed
it is easy to see that jealousies and
uneasiness may gradually slide into the
minds and cabinets of other nations and
that we are not to expect that they
should regard our advancement
in union in power and in consequence by
land and by sea
with an eye of indifference and
composure
the people of america are aware that
inducements to war may arise out of
these circumstances
as well as from others not so obvious at
present and that whenever such
inducements may find fit time and
opportunity for operation
pretenses to color and justify them will
not be wanting
wisely therefore do they consider union
and a good national government as
necessary to put and keep them
in such a situation as instead of
inviting war will tend to repress and
discourage it
that situation consists in the best
possible state of defense and
necessarily depends on the government
the arms and the resources of the
country
as the safety of the whole is the
interest of the whole and cannot be
provided for without government either
one or more or many
let us inquire whether one good
government is not relative to the object
in question
more competent than any other given
number whatever
one government can collect and avail
itself of the talents and experience of
the ableist men
in whatever part of the union they may
be found it can move on uniform
principles of policy
it can harmonize assimilate and protect
the several parts and members
and extend the benefits of its foresight
and precautions to each
in the formation of treaties it will
regard the interests of the whole
and the particular interests of the
parts as connected with that of the
whole
they can apply the resources and power
of the whole to the defense of any
particular part
and that more easily and expeditiously
than state governments or separate
confederacies can possibly do
for want of concert and unity of system
it can place the militia under one plan
of discipline
and by putting their officers in a
proper line of subordination to the
chief magistrate will as it were
consolidate them into one core and
thereby render them more efficient than
if divided into 13
or into three or four distinct
independent companies
what would the militia of britain be if
the english militia obeyed the
government of england
if the scotch militia obeyed the
government of scotland and if the welsh
militia obeyed the government of wales
suppose an invasion would those three
governments
if they agreed at all be able with all
their respective forces to operate
against the enemy so effectually as the
single government of great britain would
we have heard much of the fleets of
britain and the time may come
if we are wise when the fleets of
america may engage attention
but if one national government had not
so regulated the navigation of britain
as to make it a nursery for semen
if one national government had not
called forth all the national means and
materials for forming fleets
their prowess and their thunder would
never have been celebrated
let england have its navigation and
fleet let scotland have its navigation
and fleet
let wales have its navigation and fleet
let ireland have its navigation and
fleet
let those four of the constituent parts
of the british empire be under four
independent governments and it is easy
to perceive how soon they would each
dwindle into comparative insignificance
apply these facts to our own case leave
america divided into 13 or if you please
into three or four independent
governments
what armies could they raise and pay
what fleets could they ever hope to have
if one was attacked would the others fly
to its sucker and spend their blood and
money in its defense
would there be no danger of their being
flattened into neutrality
by its specious promises or seduced by
too great fondness for peace to decline
hazarding their tranquility and present
safety for the sake of neighbors
of whom perhaps they have been jealous
and whose importance they are content to
see diminished
although such conduct would not be wise
it would nevertheless be natural
the history of the states of greece and
of other countries abounds with such
instances
and it is not improbable that what has
so often happened would
under similar circumstances happen again
but admit that they might be willing to
help the invaded state or confederacy
how and when and in what proportion
shall aids of men and money be afforded
who shall command the allied armies and
from which of them shall he receive his
orders
who shall settle the terms of peace and
in case of disputes what umpire shall
decide between them and compel
acquiescence various difficulties and
inconveniences would be inseparable from
such a situation
whereas one government watching over the
general and common interests and
combining and directing the powers and
resources of the whole
would be free from all these
embarrassments and conduce far more to
the safety of the people
but whatever may be our situation
whether firmly united under one national
government or split into a number of
confederacies
certain it is that foreign nations will
know and view it exactly as it is
and they will act toward us accordingly
if they see that our national government
is efficient and well administered
our trade prudently regulated our
militia properly organized and
disciplined
our resources and finances discreetly
managed our credit re-established our
people free
contented and united they will be much
more disposed to cultivate our
friendship than provoke our resentment
if on the other hand they find us
destitute of an effectual government
each state doing right or wrong as to
its rulers may seem convenient or split
into three or four
independent and probably discordant
republics or confederacies one inclining
to britain another to france and a third
to spain
and perhaps played off against each
other by the three what a poor pitiful
figure will america make in their eyes
how liable would she become not only to
their contempt but to their outrage
and how soon would dearbot experience
proclaim that when a people or family so
divide
it never fails to be against themselves
publius